URL: https://www.microsoft.com/en-us/worklab/podcast/timm-chiusano-on-ai-and-winning-the-week
Source: microsoft.com/worklab/podcast
Total Word Count: 909

=== TRANSCRIPT CONTENT ===
Word Count: 179

MOLLY WOOD: This is WorkLab, the podcast from Microsoft. I’m your host, Molly Wood. On WorkLab we hear from experts about the future of work, from how to use AI effectively to what it takes to thrive in the digital age. Today, I am thrilled to be talking to Timm Chiusano. Chiusano did brand and advertising work for ESPN before becoming Vice President of Production and Creative Services at the advertising and marketing division of Charter Communications. Then he started creating TikTok videos. 
TIMM CHIUSANO: This is what no one tells you about being the boss. You’ve got to do all the behind-the-scenes work so other people’s best work gets them promoted, which also helps you feel better when you feel stuck. Because the higher you get, the harder it gets to get higher. You have a massive impact on budgeting and resources. You have a massive impact on other people’s moods just by how kindly you greet them. You get to help others solve problems and make them feel better about them at the end. 
Show full transcript

=== PAGE PARAGRAPHS CONTENT ===
Word Count: 730

Podcast

The TikTok superstar and former creative executive shares his unique career journey and leadership insights.

WorkLab Guest Timm Chiusano

September 25, 2024

“My purpose is helping people do their best work by being the best version of themselves,” says Timm Chiusano, a creative executive turned TikTok superstar. 
 
Until a few months ago, Chiusano was Vice President of Production and Creative Services for the advertising and marketing division at Charter Communications. But in his spare time, he was recording every aspect of his daily routine with his phone and editing the footage down into TikTok videos, which he narrates in a stream-of-consciousness style with insights about leadership, productivity, and creativity. Chiusano quickly built an audience of more than a million followers, and he recently left his day job to focus on his social content and upcoming book, How to Get Addicted to Appreciation, due out next year. 

In this episode of the WorkLab podcast, Chiusano joins host Molly Wood to discuss the joys of managing, the value of authenticity, leadership strategies for incorporating technology into the workplace, and the value of being mindful and present in your work and personal lives.

Three big takeaways from the conversation:

Let your needs determine your AI strategy. Organizations should start by identifying needs that AI can help address, Chiusano says, instead of applying the technology willy-nilly: “Those that are going to have the best long-term outcomes with AI are going to be those that continue to focus on their biggest ideas, and where your customers are going, and then utilizing AI to help them get there versus trying to force it to be the leader in the conversation.”

The secret to good leadership: make goals and roles crystal clear. Chiusano says that what he loves about leadership is the challenge of communicating values and desired outcomes to his team. He believes that the more clarity you can provide, the better the chance that employees will go home thinking that this was a good day. “They feel like they are fulfilling their purpose and delivering value back to a company,” he says. “They feel safe and secure in their role, and they’re clear on what the outcome should be.”

If you want better outcomes, focus on “winning the week.” “Every company has annual goals. They have quarterly goals. Not a lot of companies have weekly goals,” Chiusano says. He believes that structuring personal and team goals by the week can help you progress purposefully toward goals and create a feedback loop that enables you to improve and refine processes. “You can get large groups of people in very, very corporate environments to be like, Cool, this is fun,” he adds.

WorkLab is a place for experts to share their insights and opinions. As students of the future of work, Microsoft values inputs from a diverse set of voices. That said, the opinions and findings of the experts we interview are their own and do not reflect Microsoft’s own research or opinions.

Follow the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever you get your podcasts.

Here’s a transcript of the conversation.

MOLLY WOOD: This is WorkLab, the podcast from Microsoft. I’m your host, Molly Wood. On WorkLab we hear from experts about the future of work, from how to use AI effectively to what it takes to thrive in the digital age. Today, I am thrilled to be talking to Timm Chiusano. Chiusano did brand and advertising work for ESPN before becoming Vice President of Production and Creative Services at the advertising and marketing division of Charter Communications. Then he started creating TikTok videos.

TIMM CHIUSANO: This is what no one tells you about being the boss. You’ve got to do all the behind-the-scenes work so other people’s best work gets them promoted, which also helps you feel better when you feel stuck. Because the higher you get, the harder it gets to get higher. You have a massive impact on budgeting and resources. You have a massive impact on other people’s moods just by how kindly you greet them. You get to help others solve problems and make them feel better about them at the end.

In the age of AI, “what got us here isn’t going to get us where we need to go.”

AI will be our most effective, least judgmental tutor. But humans have their work cut out for them too.